# Rails dummy app
This app is for me to practice rails development.

# Running the app
Use VS Code with the remote development extension and docker to run the application using the provided development container. 

# Learning goals
#### key
- F: Finished - concept has been learned, implemented, and documented here
- D: Documentation - concept has been learned, implemented, but needs more documentation
- I: Implementation - concept has been learned, but not yet implemented
- L: Learning - research has been started
- W: Waiting - progress on learning has not been started

## Ongoing goals
Goals here are ideals I will continue to improve as I work on this app.
- Rails on docker

## Primary Goals
### Postgres setup - W
The goal here will be to learn what parts of a rails application determine how rails talks to a database. The specific database used here will be postgresql. Success in this goal means that there is documentation here explaining what parts of application code determine how the rails app talks to the database.

To setup postgres, you can easily get up and running with a new app by running the rails new command with the flat `-d postgresql`.

For existing applications that want to change to postgresql you need to update the `config/database.yml` file with the following keys. This example is for a docker compose setup setup

```yaml
default: &default
    adapter: postgresql
    encoding: unicode 
    pool: <%= ENV.fetch("RAILS_MAX_THREADS") { 5 } %>
    host: db # or the name of your database service from docker compose this setting will need to change if you are running postgres locally, or not in docker compose
    username: postgres # default username
    password: # default password is blank
development:
    <<: *default # inherit settings from default
    database: workspace_development # sets the name of the database
test:
    <<: *default # inherit settings from default
    database: workspace_test
production:
    database: workspace_production
# continue by setting other keys needed to connect to your production database
```

### Integrating React/Typescript - W
The goal here is to learn how to setup rails to serve the bundle generated by React's webpack configuration from a rails erb template. While this is not the 'optimal' way to serve javascript. If mastered and optimized, it can be a very simple way to setup a deployment for a low traffic application without worrying about how to 'optimally' serve static assets. Success in this goal means there is documentation around the following.
- How to go from a rails app void of javascript, to a rails app with react.
- How to have a 'hybrid' web app. Where some pages are pure rails templates, and one (or more) serve the react app (preferably also through a template).
- How to setup webpack for easy and efficient development of both the rails and react app simultaneously. Preferably while keeping webpack configuration as similar as possible to create-react-app's boilerplate configuration.
- How to include a production webpack build of the react app as part of a rails deployment.

### Deployment - W
How to deploy the application. What settings are needed to ensure a successful and secure production deployment.

## Stretch Learning Goals
### User authentication through AWS cognito - W

### Running the application on kubernetes - W

### VSCode debugging - W

